Welcome back!
Good job! You've made it this far and
you're probably asking yourself, "Andrei,
this has been really
good really informative.
But where is the coding; I want
to start building some websites."
And I know,
I know we'll get there don't worry.
But without even realizing it you just learned some
really really important fundamental skills, and something
that will take you very very far in the career of a
web developer because now you know how to improve
website performance without
a single line of code.
And just so you know we're
gonna get a little silly here.
We're actually going to make sure that you remember
these fundamental skills every time throughout these
lessons there's going to be chunks of very important
lessons and to symbolize how important they are.
I'm going to get Jean-Claude
Van Damme's help.
So again this is an important lesson.
This is an important fundamental,
web developer concept.
So Jean-Claude Van Damme,
how important is it?
All right.
So as you can see a very
important concept and what is it?
Well like I said without writing a single line of code
you now know how to improve a website's performance
so let's think about this.
There's three things.
We send 'google.com', we talk to Google servers, and
we get these files back. So just looking at this and
looking at what you've learned so far what's one thing
that would make sure that this this process would be fast?
Let's look at the first one I'm
going to give you a second to think.
Hopefully you get it.
The first one is location of the server.
We saw how big the Internet backbone is.
So if the servers are really really close to you,
let's say you're in the States and the servers are
just a couple of kilometers away that hop is going
to be really really fast versus if it's all the way
across the globe.
So location of the server is important.
And we'll talk about these and how big companies
use these to their advantage later on.
So that makes sense.
Let's look at the next one.
So the next one is how many trips.
So hopefully, ideally we just have one trip to the
Google servers and Google servers send us all the
files that we need back.
But as we know there's new pages there are searches
so this communication with Google is back and forth,
back and forth.
And the less trips we have, the faster
that we would be able to to get the files.
So how many trips. And then finally size of files
again if this HTML file, CSS file, or Javascript
file is massive and it's
you know 100 megabytes.
Well that's going to be a lot slower to transfer over
the Internet than it is, if it was just a couple
of kilobytes.
So there it is.
These three things are something that you'll take
with you and you'll realize that every time you're
building an application or web site you're going to
be thinking about these things and these are going
to help you make sure that you have a performant,
fast web site and we're going to take these with us
as we go on throughout the course.
Talk to you soon.